They divided the meager spoils from the camp in makeshift backpacks
and started down the mountain in the grey mist of morning. Cordelia led
Dubauer by the hand and helped him when he stumbled. She was not sure
how clearly he recognized her, but he clung to her and avoided Vorkosigan.
The forest grew thicker and the trees taller as they went down.
Vorkosigan hacked through the undergrowth with his knife for a while, then
they took to the stream bed. Splashes of sunlight began to filter through the
canopy, picking out fiery green velvet humps of moss, sparkling rills of
water, and stones on the stream bed like a layer of bronze coins.

Radial symmetry was popular among the tiny creatures occupying the
ecological niches held by insects on Earth. Some aerial varieties like gas—
filled jellyfishes floated in iridescent clouds above the stream like flocks of
delicate soap bubbles, delighting Cordelia's eye. They seemed to have a
mellowing effect on Vorkosigan, too, for he called for a break from what
seemed to her a killing pace.

They drank from the stream and sat a while watching the little radials
dart and puff in the spray from a waterfall. Vorkosigan closed his eyes and
leaned against a tree. He was running on the ragged edge of exhaustion too,
Cordelia realized. Temporarily unwatched, she studied him curiously. He
had behaved throughout with curt but dignified military professionalism.
Still she was bothered by a subliminal alarm, a persistent sense of
something of importance forgotten. It popped out of her memory suddenly,
like a ball held underwater breaking the surface on release and arcing into
the air.


"I know who you are. Vorkosigan, the Butcher of Komarr." She
immediately wished she had not spoken, for he opened his eyes and stared
at her, a peculiar play of expressions passing across his face.
"What do you know about Komarr?" His tone added, An ignorant
Betan.
"Just what everyone knows. It was a worthless ball of rock your people
annexed by military force for command of its wormhole clusters. The ruling
senate surrendered on terms, and were murdered immediately after.







engage problem:
lead by hand
help
avoid
clung
+ engageWith(type: HumanInteractionType, otherHuman: Human): void